---
title: Hot Work
author: Don MacIsaac
date: 2021-01-01 12:00:00 +0000
categories: [General]
tags: [Hot Work, Permit to Work, Gas Monitoring]
---
{% include youtube.html id='zWkcuR0adeI' %}
## Summary
This bulletin comes after a number of recent hot work accidents that share all or many of the same safety lessons. Seven of the accidents have occurred since July 2008. While each accident has unique features, all resulted from a flammable vapor coming in contact with an ignition source created by welding or cutting that was performed in, on, or near tanks that contained flammables. In some cases, the presence of a flammable material was completely unknown to the workers; in all cases, the workers had no knowledge that an explosive amount of flammable vapor had accumulated. While much can be learned from these

hot work accidents, this bulletin highlights seven specific lessons that the CSB concludes will have the greatest safety impact if implemented in the workplace.



## Key Learnings / Issues
1. Assess the hazards and use alternatives (to hot work) where applicable.
2. Test the area before work starts and continuously monitor the atmosphere.
3. Use a Permit to Work (PTW) system to control work.
4. Train all personnnel to identify and control for hazards.
5. Ensure contractors are selected (for the task) and supervised appropriately.


## Quote
*“The workers had not performed gas monitoring prior to or during the hot work, instead relying on... a lit torch to check one of the tanks for flammable vapor.”*        \
From the CSB's safety bulletin in relation to an incident that claimed three lives.


## Resources
[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hot_work){:target="_blank"}        \
[Investigation](https://www.csb.gov/assets/1/17/csb_hot_work_safety_bulletin_embargoed_until_10_a_m__3_4_101.pdf?14329){:target="_blank"}